advanced backend communication 

url -- https://projects.100xdevs.com/tracks/ABEC/ABEC-1

backend system talk to other backend system using HTTP 


why we don't create everything in single backend server?
as your application grows you don't want to put everything in a single backend server 
and async process like notification on phone 
primary backend server be worry about it 


what are microservices. ? 

how do backends talk ? 
http 
queue
web socket 
pub sub 


when these 4 use case and when they make sense and what are their cons ? 

example of queue in paytm(their notification) and leetcode(their submission)


types of communication 
Synchronous  -- strong coupling 
HTTP(REST/GraphQL) , what is GraphQL
websocket(debatable) -- explain why debatable


when you are waiting for a response from the another sever --> Synchronous
Asynchronous  -- weak coupling 
messaging queues
pub subs 
server-sent events (debatable)  -- explain why debatable
websocket(debatable)  -- explain why debatable




websocket 
it is rearely used to backend server to talk to each other 
it is mostly used to browser to talk to the server 

WebSockets provide a way to establish a persistent, full-duplex communication 
channel over a single TCP connection between the client (typically a web browser) 
and the server.

in http you dont create a persistent connection 
you sen req and wait for response, as respons come you close the connection 


what is handshake in http ? 3 way handshake ? 
in websocket handshake happen only once 

both side can send req in web socket 
you cant do this in http 

practical use case of web socket ?
real time application
live feeds
interactive feeds


Real-Time Applications: Chat applications, live sports updates, 
real-time gaming, and any application requiring instant updates 
can benefit from WebSockets.

Live Feeds: Financial tickers, news feeds, 
and social media updates are examples where WebSockets 
can be used to push live data to users.


Interactive Services: Collaborative editing tools, 
live customer support chat, and interactive webinars can use 
WebSockets to enhance user interaction


what is tcp connection ? 

what polling leetcode does ? i mean sending http req again and again 




websocket in nodejs ? 
there are many implemenation of websocket in nodejs 
if you wanna create http server in nodejs you can use express, koa, hono(http framwork)
above example are implemenation of http protocol 

a lot of time company who care about latency server, 
they build websocket server from sratch in some low level languge 


socket io is not that better 
strict to core ws protocol


more backend protocol 
webRTC 
quic


polling and long polling diff?
http pipeline 

whenever you are creating webserver you are making http server only 

ws code by http 
ws code by express 



ws uses call backs 


hoppscotch.io -- like a postman for ws 