Images vs containers

Docker Image
A Docker image is a lightweight, standalone, executable package that includes everything 
needed to run a piece of software, including the code, a runtime, libraries, 
environment variables, and configuration files.

A good mental model for understanding a Docker image is to think of it as your codebase 
on GitHub. Just like how your codebase on GitHub contains all the necessary files and 
dependencies to run your application, a Docker image contains everything required to 
run a specific software or application.


Docker images are built from a set of instructions called a Dockerfile. 
The Dockerfile specifies the steps to create the image, such as installing dependencies, 
copying files, and setting environment variables.


Docker Container
A Docker container is a running instance of a Docker image. 
It encapsulates the application or service and its dependencies, 
running in an isolated environment.

A good mental model for understanding a Docker container is to think of it 
as when you run node index.js on your machine from some source code you got from GitHub. 
Just like how running node index.js creates an instance of your application, 
a Docker container is an instance of a Docker image, running the application or service within an isolated environment.

Docker containers are created from Docker images and 
can be started, stopped, and restarted as needed. 
Multiple containers can be created from the same image, 
each running as an isolated instance of the application or service.


To run the same image as two different containers, use:

Example with nginx:

docker run --name web1 nginx
docker run --name web2 nginx

docker run -d --name my-nginx-container -p 8080:80 nginx


To summarize:
Docker Image: A lightweight, standalone package that contains everything needed to run a piece of software, similar to a codebase on GitHub.
Docker Container: A running instance of a Docker image, encapsulating the application or service and its dependencies in an isolated environment, similar to running node index.js from a codebase.