certbot for https 
nginx for reverse proxy 

serverless backends? 

what is aws lambda , and how its diff from vm ? 

but its very expensive. 

severless db is harder than severless BE 



Easier defination
What if you could just write your express routes and run a command. The app would automatically 
Deploy
Autoscale
Charge you on a per request basis (rather than you paying for VMs)
 
Problems with this approach
More expensive at scale
Cold start problem? wht is this 


how do you solve a cold start problem ? 
warm pool min server running 
bot req  running somewhere 


what is cloudflare. ?


neonDB -- server less for db




famous serverless BE
aws lambda
google cloud function
cloudflare workers 



When should you use a serverless architecture?
When you have to get off the ground fast and don’t want to worry about deployments
When you can’t anticipate the traffic and don’t want to worry about autoscaling
If you have very low traffic and want to optimise for costs



cloudflare -- captchas 

cloudflare is shady 


how serverless better than vm ? and why not ? 

cloudfire dont use firecracker and lamda
thats why it took then long to add python 

cloudfare have there own interpreter thats why maybe 
worker runtime uses v8 engine that chrome and node js uses 



js runtime. -- bun (using zig) like node js (using c++)



how workers work ? 
worker runtime is cloudfare


what is isolates.  ?


isolates vs container ? 
docker is not as light weight as isolated explain this line ? 


cloudflare expect to have single fetch function ?

cloudfare worker doesnt have routing. 

wrangler ? --- CLI of cloudflare 
express doesnt work with cloduflare workers 
 
hono in cloudflare  -- its framework like express, does express work there 


explore the hono docs 


serverless have one big problem with db connection 
db can have limited amount of connection 

connection pooling ? 
how prisma make money ? -- by connection pooling 


prisma accelerate --- connection pooling and caching 
pool doesnt have limit 
db have this is why its come in picture 


serverless env is bad idea to have global variable 

withAccelerate () wht it does? 





